if you've been trying to grow a brand or
a business on social media in the last
10 years then you have probably heard
about an email list most highlevel
entrepreneurs preach about the
importance of an email list and pretty
much everyone agrees that an email list
is more valuable even than your list of
followers and so today I'm going to give
you the beginner to intermediate guide
of pretty much everything you need to
know about an email list how do you
collect emails where do you store them
what should you send to the people on
your email list what strategies can you
use on social media to get a follower to
become an email list subscriber and then
what can you actually send in your
emails on a regular basis I'm going to
be answering all of those questions and
giving you as much advice as I possibly
can in today's episode all about an
email
list now don't just take my word for it
here are some actual statistics relating
to the value of an email list on average
every $1 that you spend on email
marketing you generate $42 in return
according to a study by smart insights
the average email list Grows by 10 to
15% each year which is equal to or
greater than the average Instagram
accounts growth rate each year and
according to a survey by litmus email
marketing equates for 20 to 25% of
business's average annual revenue so if
you're someone who either doesn't have
an email list or you have one but you
just aren't really that active with it
you could potentially be missing out on
20 to 25% of your annual revenue just by
not taking advantage of the things we're
going to talk about in today's episode
now there are numerous ways to grow an
email list you can run ads to grow an
email list if you have like a physical
location business you can grow your
email list in person there's a lot of
different ways to go about it but today
we are going to specifically focus on
using your organic social media to grow
your email list and besides all those
statistics that I just shared this is
really important because you can lose
access to your social media at any time
if you've been active on Instagram in
the last 30 days or so then you've
probably seen at least a handful of the
ongoing glitches that Instagram is
facing to put it nicely Instagram has
been a very challenging place over the
month of April and March 2024 there have
been a lot of glitches including
numerous crashes hundreds of thousands
of people have lost access to their
Instagram accounts and many of those
people still have not gotten back their
Instagram account a lot of people have
lost the ability to post stories or
reals and a lot of other critical
features have just been randomly
disappearing and that's just with
Instagram crashes that doesn't consider
the fact that people are always getting
wrongfully disabled their accounts taken
down their getting removed and every
single day hundreds of thousands of
people are getting their Instagram and
Facebook accounts hacked I say that not
to scare you but to give you the honest
truth which is that you can lose access
to your followers at any time it doesn't
matter if you have 10 million followers
or 10 followers those followers are
ultimately very fragile because you
don't own Instagram you don't even own
the right to access those followers you
could lose access at any time which
means suddenly all of that hard work
that you put into gain those followers
was kind of for nothing because now you
have no way to contact those people and
not to mention all of the work that you
put in creating all that content if you
don't have that content saved somewhere
boom in an instant you could lose access
to all of that content that's why it's
so important that as you're growing your
following you are also growing your
email list a lot of people believe that
they will launch their email list once
they reach a certain threshold so once
they hit 10,000 followers then they'll
start building their email list or once
they hit 100,000 then they'll start
building your email list when in reality
I believe it's most beneficial to grow
your email list alongside your following
not as an afterthought not as something
that you're going to do eventually but
with every new follower you gain your
goal should be to also transition that
person into an email list subscriber
there's nothing to gain and there's a
lot to lose by waiting so I don't care
even if you haven't started your
Instagram account yet and I know I'm
saying Instagram but this applies to Tik
Tok and Facebook and YouTube all the
social media platforms it doesn't matter
if you haven't started yet or if you
already have 10 million followers it's
time to start focusing on your email
list if I can kind of lay some
groundwork some minimums for you I would
recommend doing at least one email list
promotional Activity one email list
promotion post per week now that might
be a story on Instagram that might be a
Tik Tok video that might be a shout out
in one of your YouTube videos or your
podcast episodes but at a minimum one
activity per week that's going to grow
your email list but ideally you should
be doing more than that ideally it
should be four to seven times per week
yes that means even ideally once per day
the most successful business owners who
I've talked to and interviewed all Echo
that they're doing things on a daily
basis to grow their email list because
they know that even though views are
nice and followers are cool those things
are futile and the email list is what
really matters but before we get into
the actual strategies that you can use
and that I'm going to share with you to
grow your email list let's talk about
for those of you who are day one you
don't have an email list or maybe you
had one if few years ago and it's not
active anymore let's talk about what you
can use to even collect the emails like
what is the list quote unquote how do
you send emails how do you keep track of
all of these things what you're going to
need is what's called a CRM platform and
CRM stands for customer relationship
management it's a fancy term that
basically means email list and there's a
wide variety of email list providers out
there all with slightly different
features and slightly different price
points so I recommend just shopping
around watch a few YouTube videos that
are maybe comparing and contrasting some
of the popular ones and figure out one
that serves your needs in your current
stage of business and also meets your
budget some tools are going to be great
for email list collection but aren't
going to give you the opportunity to
also send emails to said list some of
those platforms include five which is
FIV do me five. me that's a great
platform that integrates into your
Instagram account and can help you
automatically transition a lot of your
followers into customers some other ones
that I've used are stand store I have a
stand store Link in my bio that is
stan. store stand store is kind of like
a Linkin bio or a link tree tool but it
also gives you the option to collect
emails and then another option is using
men chat which we've talked about many
times on this show and many chat doesn't
necessarily directly store the emails
for you but many chat can integrate with
a lot of other tools including some of
the tools that I've already mentioned
and that I will be mentioning to
basically allow you to collect emails
right from the DMS so rather than having
someone go to some sort of like landing
page and then type in their email they
can actually just type in their email
right in the direct messages and then
that can be saved and stored for you
through many chat integration so those
are three tools that I've used that I
would recommend if you're someone who
just wants to collect emails but then in
terms of actually sending out the emails
you're not just going to use your Gmail
account you're not just going to open up
Gmail and then copy and paste in the
link of emails and send everyone like a
mass message instead there are certain
platforms that are used to send out
these Mass messages whether you're
sending out 20 or you're sending out
20,000 some that I've used in the past
that can allow you to both collect and
send emails that I would recommend are
number one kajabi which is k a j a b
keep which is ke a p and there's a lot
of other really popular ones like
MailChimp that are widely recommended
and a lot of people use and rely on
those on a daily basis but again I'm not
here to uh tell you that there's a
one-size fits-all or that you know one
is just far superior to the rest
ultimately it's going to depend on what
features you're looking for and the
budget that you have again though when
you're looking at budget and when you're
looking at how much you're going to
spend I want you to keep in mind that
very first statistic that I shared with
you which is that for every $1
businesses spend on email marketing on
average they generate $42 in return so
just think about that keep that in mind
don't think of uh the money that you're
spending on your RM platform to be a
loss think of it as an investment into
the future growth of your business all
right now with all of the foundation
laid with all of that covered let's talk
about some actual strategies that you
can use to grow your email list these
strategies that I'm about to share are
going to be in increasing order of
Effectiveness um starting with the least
effective and of course finishing with
the most effective from what we've seen
ultimately though before we even get
into these strategies just like anything
else every audience is different so try
out different strategies to figure out
what works best for you and your
audience and also just because the last
strategy that I share is the most
effective doesn't mean that that's the
only one you should use right use a
variety of different strategies to
basically test out different things um
and make sure that you're not just
blindly following what someone like me
shares always test and try things out
for yourself and take things with a
grain of salt all right but let's get
into the actual strategies number one
strategy is just the direct sign up
basically saying here's the link to sign
up for my email list if you want to join
here's here's where you can type in your
info and sign up of course it's going to
be the least effective Because unless
you're someone who people already admire
or look to for advice or they really uh
care about the things that you're
sharing maybe you're like an influencer
there's not going to be a huge draw to
sign up for your email list just to sign
up like if Kim Kardashian was like
here's the link for my email list sign
up she would get a lot of people signing
up but if she used one of these other
strategies that I'm about to share she
would likely get even more the second
strategy is to sign up in order to
receive a discount this is one that is
super popular with like the big Brands
the bigname businesses like I guarantee
you if you go to any major businesses
website like I don't know the first ones
that come to mind are like Target or
Ikea or something like that if you go to
their website and spend a few minutes
there you will either get some sort of
popup that's like hey insert your email
and get 10% off or when you go to
checkout it's like sign up and receive
10% off essentially that's what they're
doing they're getting your email and
they're giving you a small discount in
exchange you as the consumer feel very
motivated to put in your email because
you're like okay awesome I'm going to
get 10 or 15 or 20% off but they as the
business as the brand they see the value
in that because now they have your email
and so sure they might make 10% Less on
that sale but the thought is over time
they're going to be able to sell more to
you because they have your your email
and that email is so valuable especially
for us business owners because not only
can Instagram be taken away in a minute
you can lose access to your followers
yada yada yada let's just think about
the algorithm the algorithm is always
changing right and I hear from so many
people that they're just not reaching
their followers they're not even
reaching 10% or 5% of their followers so
yeah you could have a 100,000 followers
but even if your account isn't hacked or
isn't disabled even if you have access
and you post every single day you still
might not even reach1 thousand of those
people or a thousand of those people
because of the way the algorithms work
that's different than when you have
someone's email when you have someone's
email unless your email is getting like
automatically filtered to spam which can
happen unless that's happening you are
showing up in someone's inbox and last
time I checked almost every email inbox
is sorted in chronological order which
means that there isn't really an
algorithm that's determining whether or
not someone sees your email instead when
you send them the email boom it shows up
in their inbox and if they have their
email notifications turned on they're
also going to get a notification on
their phone and maybe also even on their
computer so it's just that much more
effective and powerful and reliable for
reaching the people that you want to
reach idea number three is providing
value in a different way rather than
being a discount on a product it's going
to be offering some value in the email
itself we're going to get more into this
later when we talk about the difference
between benefits and features but
basically think about if you're planning
your email emist ahead of time what are
you going to be sending to people like
why should they subscribe other than
just for promotional emails if you're
Ikea there's nothing really valuable or
educational or all that useful that
they're going to be sending out every
single week besides just the latest
promotion but if you're someone like
myself I can provide value in the email
so when I'm sending out emails I can
give Instagram tips I can give social
media advice I can give um you know
ideas for what to post on your reels
that is value and if I have a plan in
ahead of time like hey every single week
I'm going to send out 10 trending audio
ideas for Instagram that is value and so
advertising that and talking about that
can encourage more people to sign up for
my email list it's not just sign up for
my email list so that you sign up it's
not just sign up so you can get 10% off
it's sign up and I will send you this
valuable thing on a weekly or monthly or
some sort of routine basis and then the
fourth strategy that we find very
effective again this is the most
effective strategy that we have found
for growing an email list is offering
what is called a freebie or a freemium
or oftentimes internally it's called a
lead magnet it's essentially giving your
email list subscribers something for
free air quotes around the word free um
in exchange for their email this is
another thing that's very very popular
especially uh within the space of people
who are like online Educators or
entrepreneurs people who have courses
essentially you're giving away something
of immediate return I'll give you an
example of some of the things we offer
as freebies premiums lead magnets from
the insta clubhub we have 25 viral hook
ideas so if you're someone who needs to
create hooks for your Instagram you give
us your email and then we give you that
free list of 25 ideas now we have the
opportunity to Market to you to sell to
you to promote to you in the future we
also have 55 Instagram story ideas that
help you sell we also have 20 roll real
ideas and chat gppt prompt ideas and all
of these different easy things things
that are delivered via a PDF that's two
or three pages long it has some value in
it it's not worthless it definitely uh
delivers and maybe even overd delivers
um on the promises that we make but all
it takes for someone to download that is
their email list of course now we as the
business see the value in that because
we now have an email that we can Market
to and potentially convert to a customer
in the future now of course these were
just four strategies that you can use
there are so many other strategies
there's things like giveaways and
contests there's challenges you could
have someone sign up for a webinar be
part of a group there's so many
different ways that you can promote your
email list and a lot of these things
will vary depending on what you plan on
sending and also what you already have
to sell or promote speaking of promoting
let's talk about that I have two things
that I want to recommend that you keep
in mind when promoting and the first one
is a general recommendation that is for
all kinds of promotion all kinds of
sales um regardless of the social media
platform and honestly regardless of if
you're selling like a $3,000 product or
your free email list that you want
people to sign up for and that is to
focus on the benefits rather than the
features another way to say that is
focus on what's in it for them like what
do your followers have to gain from this
thing rather than just what's in it and
I think a very easy example to explain
this principle is if I was describing my
email list if I was to promote my email
list using the features I would say you
get a new email every Friday morning at
7:15 a.m. that's 3 to four paragraphs
long and it's delivered right to your
inbox those are the features but no one
really cares about the features they
care about the benefits they care about
what's in it for them like Brock what is
in this email that's delivered on
Fridays at 7:00 a.m. that's so valuable
to me so I could instead say something
like you get a brief and concise Rundown
of everything you need to know that has
changed on Instagram in the last 7 days
or if you are a subscriber to our insta
clubhub Weekly Newsletter then you get a
reel every single week that is broken
down and critiqued what worked in that
reel and what didn't work as well as a
list of 10 trending audio ideas audios
that are currently blowing up and are
very popular that are very easy for you
to use that's something that we send out
every single week and honestly now that
I think about it even the way I just
described it I was kind of focusing on
the features right I was talking about
the 10 trending audio ideas instead what
would be more useful and effective to
say would be every single week you don't
have to worry about coming up with posts
for Instagram because we send you 10
easy to create ideas that are more
likely to go viral that is focusing on
the benefits because truly the benefit
of signing up for the insta clubhub
email list is what I just described it's
that you don't have to worry about
finding trending audios you don't have
to stress about what am I going to post
because we literally just hand you 10
ideas every single week so again when
you are promoting anything but
especially when you're promoting your
email list focus on the benefits AKA
what's in it for them rather than the
features which are just purely what's in
it and then the second tip is one that
pretty much exclusively applies to
Facebook and Instagram but I know that
for the majority of our listeners
Facebook and Instagram are your number
one and number two platform um and that
is to use direct message automation
we've done numerous episodes about this
I've talked about this many many times
but the reason I'm such a fan of DM
automation rather than promoting the
link in BIO or the link sticker on your
Instagram stories is simply that with DM
automation you get more people actually
signing up you get more people seeing
the post more people engaging with the
post more people clicking on the link
and thus more people becoming customers
or email list subscribers than if you
were to just use the plain old Link in
BIO or the link on your stories all
right now let's talk about a very common
question and a question question that I
honestly had myself recently which is
what goes into an email like what are
the best practices of how long your
subject line should be how long should
your email be should you put a lot of
photos or a lot of gifts should you have
big bold text like what even should go
into an email and I recently interviewed
a great email list expert Liz Wilcox who
if that name sounds familiar yes she is
on the current season of Survivor but I
interviewed her and I asked her all of
these questions honestly for selfish
reasons because I wanted to know the
answer for my own email list and her
answer to almost all these questions is
it depends which was on one hand kind of
uh frustrating to hear because I think
often times we want to hear no your uh
subject line should be 42 characters
long and your email should be three
paragraphs Max but on the other hand
it's actually very refreshing and I
think it gives us a lot of freedom when
you hear it depends so really what her
big lesson was was that just like on
social media just like I teach with
Instagram every audience is different
every Creator is different let's think
about my mom someone who very famously
has ADHD and struggles with ADHD if you
receive an email from her it's not going
to be paragraph after paragraph after
paragraph it's going to be sassy and fun
and it's going to be a little witty and
it's going to be brief it's going to be
bright right those are the words she's
always using um it's going to be a few
sentences at a time broken up into
multiple easy easy to consume uh
paragraphs rather than having these like
long Harry Potter style you know
multi-paragraph essays and so that very
much fits with who she is and who her
audience is if you've ever been on my
email list which by the way if you're
not on my personal email list you can go
to email brock.com I made it very easy
for you just go to email brock.com and
you can sign up for my email list my
emails are super short they're yes often
filled with typos they're usually very
informal and very funny like I think I
am I like to think of myself as those
things um but they're not long they're
not lengthy they're not indepth they're
very valuable but they're usually
concise I'm not someone who is uh likes
to write long paragraphs you know if you
follow me on Instagram you rarely see
very long captions and the same is true
it's mirrored in my emails that I send
out as part of my email marketing and I
know for a lot of us myself included I
overthink my emails and I think they
need to be super noral or they all need
to be promoting and selling something or
that they need to be a certain structure
every single time and that's just not
true you can have variety and
variability in your email list and again
everything I'm sharing with you right
now in regards to best practices for
email marketing comes directly from Liz
Wilcox in that interview by the way that
was on my other podcast that I'm doing
called social media money makers it's an
interview only podcast um and if you
want to go check that out you can just
search social media moneymakers on any
podcast platform and you should find
that episode I did with again her name
is Liz Wilcox and it was all about email
marketing but really we need to free
ourselves of the shackles and the
handcuffs of sticking to an exact
formula every single time instead we
need to figure out what works best for
us and even if for you that means that
you're going to write a four sentence
email and you're going to send that
email weekly because that's all you can
realistically sustain you can't commit
to writing like a multi-paragraph super
valuable email that's being sent out
every day then that's fine just like I
talk about on Instagram consistency
matters so much more in the long run
rather than a short period of hyperf
frequency followed by a long period of
inactivity and speaking of frequency Liz
said she would recommend at least one
email a week but if you can't sustain
one email a week even one every other
week or one a month is a great frequency
to start at but there are some companies
some individuals some entrepreneurs and
Brands who have scale all the way up to
one email a day I don't know if that's
necessarily possible for everyone
especially if you don't have like a team
or at least a copywriter or someone to
help you out with your emails um but at
least one a week is usually a good
number to start at and for myself
personally that's the number that I am
at for my email list right now now I do
say my email list because we do have
different email lists within our
business I have a personal email list
which is just my customers and people
who have signed up for my email list but
then we have a separate email list for
the insta clubhub this very much helps
with targeting and with segmenting so
that we have people who have been
interested in the club before who have
signed up for the insta clubhub email
list who we can Market to and then I
have a separate smaller more engaged
Community within my email list which I
can talk to about different things and
yes I could promote the insta clubhub
but I primarily use my personal email
list to just serve people and give
valuable tips and advice now the final
question that I want to talk about the
final topic is what do you send to your
email list and I'm not just going to
tell you it depends or every audience is
different yes those things are true but
I actually have six ideas for you of
things that you can send to your email
list because I know that for myself
personally even after I talked with Liz
and even though I know the value of an
email list and I've had an email list
for like eight years now I wasn't
regularly sending an email because I
didn't know what to send but now that
I've figured out an idea and I have
something that I do send on a weekly
basis that's very easy for me it's
become a lot easier um and a lot more
routine and a lot less um hard or
challenging or timec consuming to come
up with my weekly email so idea number
one is something that I've already kind
of mentioned with the insta clubhub
weekly email and that's a weekly list of
ideas or tips or resources you know with
the insta clubhub we have the 10
trending audio ideas every week uh maybe
if you're someone who does like interior
design you could do like you know know
uh five interior design tips every week
if you're someone who's in the AI space
maybe you're going to give a rundown of
your five favorite AI tools that you're
using this week or maybe your five
favorite tools that came out this week
if you're someone who does like cleaning
maybe you're going to talk about like
discount codes it's a weekly Roundup of
you know hear the different promotions
going on by different companies this
week it's basically just a weekly uh
listicle things that are tips or ideas
or resources or discounts related to
your Niche IDE number two is a weekly
kind of like newsletter a Blog if you
will my mom used to do a version of this
called her snapshot and it actually got
its name because it originated way back
in the days of Snapchat so when my mom
used to post very often and regularly on
Snapchat she would download all of those
videos all of her Snapchat stories and
then they would be edited up into kind
of like a weekly Roundup or highlight
reel or they would uh her copywriter
would take out all of the best like
moments and highlights from from the
week on Snapchat and turn it into a
snapshot of her week her favorite
products her favorite stories whatever's
happening her new podcast that week
whatever kind of just like a weekly
Roundup I do a version of this that I
call my weekly report and it's report as
an acronym the acronym report in my
weekly report stands for reading so I
tell my audience something that I'm
currently reading like a book an article
maybe a study e stands for eating so
again just something that like I'm
really enjoying this week maybe a new
recipe I'm recommending a new restaurant
P stands for playing so it could be like
a video game that I'm playing or it
could just be something that like I'm
enjoying maybe it's summer and I'm
playing pickle ball or I'm playing in
the wreck basketball league at my gym o
stands for obsessing so I think that's
pretty self-explanatory something I'm
obsessed with in the current week R
stands for recommending so it's
something that I have recently
discovered or I really enjoy that I'm
just recommending to my audience and
then T stands for treat something that
I'm treating myself to in the last 7
days and that weekly report is a great
opportunity for me to kind of debrief my
audience on a personal note but also to
mix in some Instagram stuff so while one
week I might be reading Harry Potter and
that's just like personal another week I
might be reading an Instagram study that
I'm then going to share with my audience
one week I might be recommending a new
restaurant that I tried that I'm telling
my audience to check out and the next I
might be recommending a new in stagram
strategy so it's a great way that I can
engage my audience and share both
personal things and business related
Niche related things at the same time
another idea of something that you could
very easily send out on a weekly basis
to your email list is expanding on a
social media post so if there's like you
know some post that really does well
that week or maybe a podcast episode or
a new YouTube video or whatever just
something that needs a little bit of a
backstory or it needs a longer
explanation or even not necessarily
something longer or more or expanded on
just something that's kind of Revisited
maybe you had a post on Monday that got
a lot of people talking and it had a lot
of comments but there was also some
confusion um so you're going to on
Friday send out an email with that post
attached and you're going to explain it
in better detail or you're going to
clarify something or you're just going
to kind of point to it again and be like
hey a lot of people missed this but this
is really an important post to check out
idea number four of something that you
could send to your email list is you
could share your thoughts on current
events now for some niches this might be
easier than others and this might be
something that's hard to send out on a
weekly basis depending on what your
Niche is um but depending on your field
depending on what you mainly talk about
you could maybe incorporate pop culture
I think about like for myself as someone
who does marketing and who does social
media I could talk about like
influencers that are currently going
viral or I could talk about like you
know the new advertisement that was on
during the Super and I could break down
what worked about that basically just
reviewing or sharing thoughts or
summarizing current events that are uh
pertinent and relatable uh to your Niche
idea number five and this is probably
the most obvious one the thing that most
people think of when they uh think of an
email list and that is sharing things
that you're selling promoting uh new
sales new offers special offers special
discounts I can't tell you how many
times we have run promotions to our
email list or even to just portions of
our email list like hey these people
haven't opened an email in the last 6
months let's send them all a special
discount code hey these people have
clicked on an email in the last 10 days
let's send them a special trial offer
giving these sort of special discounts
or offers can really uh make people feel
special for being on your email list and
encourage them to open and engage with
said list relate similar to that and
last but not least another idea of
something that you could send to your
email list is Early Access to things
maybe that's early access to a post
before you post it maybe it's early
access to a podcast or a YouTube video
before you share it maybe it's early
access to a promotion or sale before you
post about it on social media giving
your email list preferential and special
treatment can both make them feel more
engaged and make them feel that your
email list and being a subscriber to it
is that much more valuable but of course
there are other things that you could
send on a weekly basis besides just
those six things there are more
strategies for growing your list than
what I described in today's episode and
there are more email list or CRM
providers than just the ones I shared
ultimately though what I want you to
take away from this is that you need to
just start taking action you need to
create an email list you need to sign up
for one of these CRM platforms and you
need to start promoting it if you decide
in the future that you want to change
your list you can always just export
that list and upload it to whatever new
platform you're on you can always change
the thing you're sending on a weekly
basis you can always collect C emails
even if you don't immediately know what
you're going to be sending them you can
start collecting and then you can decide
in a few weeks what you're going to be
sending them but I really want you to
just start taking action the only wrong
action is in action so I want you to
make yourself homework or add to your
to-do list to sign up for a CRM provider
if you haven't already and do at least
one promotional activity this very week
to grow your email list your future self
will thank you for it and I want to
thank you for listening to today's
episode thank you so much for being here
and as always happy networking
[Music]